IBX-5968: Virtual products (#204)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/pim/create_virtual_product.md

---

# Virtual products

Virtual product is a special type of a [Product](products.md). Virtual products are a non-tangible items such as memberships, services, warranties. 
They can be sold individually, or as part of a product bundle.

As physical products, virtual products can have their own [variants](work_with_product_variants.md), [assets](work_with_product_assets.md) or [attributes](products.md#attributes). 
You can as well create catalogs from them, check their completeness and set [prices, availability and stock](manage_prices_and_stock.md).

## Create virtual Product Type

If your [user Role](../permission_management/work_with_permissions.md) has the `ProductType/Edit` permission, you can modify Product Types and add individual attributes or attribute groups.

To create a virtual product, first, you have to create virtual Product Type.

1\. In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Product Types** and click **Create**.

2\. From the drop-down list choose `Virtual` type and click **Add**.

![`Creating virtual Product Type`](img/virtual_product_type.png "Creating virtual Product Type")

> 3\. Fill in basic product information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3\. Fill in basic product type information.
```

---
description: Virtual products are non-tangible items such as memberships, services, warranties. 
---

# Virtual products

Virtual product is a special type of a [Product](products.md). 

Virtual products are non-tangible items such as memberships, services, warranties. 
They can be sold individually, or as part of a product bundle.

> As physical products, virtual products can have their own [variants](work_with_product_variants.md), [assets](work_with_product_assets.md) or [attributes](products.md#attributes). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like physical products, virtual products can have their own [variants](work_with_product_variants.md), [assets](work_with_product_assets.md) or [attributes](products.md#attributes). 
```

> You can as well create catalogs from them, check their completeness and set [prices, availability and stock](manage_availability_and_stock.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also create catalogs from them, check their completeness and set [prices, availability, and stock](manage_availability_and_stock.md).
```

## Create virtual Product Type

> If your [user Role](../permission_management/work_with_permissions.md) has the `ProductType/Edit` permission, you can modify Product Types and add individual attributes or attribute groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your [user Role](work_with_permissions.md) has the `ProductType/Edit` permission, you can modify Product Types and add individual attributes or attribute groups.
```

> To create a virtual product, first, you have to create virtual Product Type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a virtual product, first, you have to create a virtual Product Type.
```

1\. In the left panel, go to **Product catalog** -> **Product Types** and click **Create**.

> 2\. From the drop-down list choose `Virtual` type and click **Add**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2\. From the drop-down list choose "Virtual" type and click **Add**.
```

> ![`Creating virtual Product Type`](img/virtual_product_type.png "Creating virtual Product Type")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Creating virtual Product Type](virtual_product_type.png "Creating virtual Product Type")
```

3\. Fill in basic product type information.

4\. Add Fields that describe the product by dragging them from the **Field types** 

> area to a section on the left, and then [configure them](../content_management/configure_ct_field_settings.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
area to a section on the left, and then [configure them](configure_ct_field_settings.md).
```

5\. Add attributes by dragging them from the toolbox on the right.

6\. Click **Save**.

## Create virtual product

Virtual products are created in the same way as physical ones.

> To create a virutal product, follow the instruction in [Create and edit products](create_edit_product.md) page.

Reviewer 3: typo: virutal -> virtual

While creating a product, choose virtual Product Type that you have created.

> ![`Creating virtual product`](img/virtual_product.png "Creating virtual product")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Creating virtual product](virtual_product.png "Creating virtual product")
```

## Virtual products purchase

> Virtual products don’t require shipment when they are purchased individually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Virtual products don't require shipment when they are purchased without other physical products.
```
?

> While purchasing a virtual product, you only have to fill in Billing address and select relevant payment method. 

Reviewer 4: You don't need email if you are not logged in?

> While purchasing virtual product, you only have to fill in Billing address. 

Reviewer 3: +select payment method :)

> While purchasing virtual product, you only have to fill in Billing address and select relevant payment method. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While purchasing a virtual product, you only have to fill in Billing address and select relevant payment method. 
```

> ![`Virtual product purchasing`](img/virtual_product_purchase.png "Virtual product purchasing")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Virtual product purchasing](virtual_product_purchase.png "Virtual product purchasing")
```
